>> Scott Moss: So enough of that talking.
Let's [LAUGH], let's do some stuff.
So let's make a new project here.
Make a new project.
We'll just give it an input.
New project input, I believe.
And this is the thing
about having conventions,
I didn't really have to look, but I'm
guessing my thing is called new project.
Yes, I made it, so I should know that.
But also because I always give it
the same thing, NewProjectInput.
So the way I like to name my inputs is
basically the name of the mutation or
query followed by the word input.
And that way I never forget
what the input names are.
And trust me, you will forget.
And you will look at it, and
you won't know what's going on.
That happens to me all the time.
So we're gonna do a mutation here for
our new project.
So let's create a new project here.
And we can see it takes input.
There is gonna input, and
we'll just get the name,
actually we'll just get the ID here.
And we'll play with this so
that you can see what I'm talking about.
So let's get the ID,
I'm gonna pass in an input here
>> Scott Moss: What does it take?
NewProjectInput, there you go.
>> Scott Moss: So
it usually autocompletes,
I guess it just doesn't feel like it.
I'm in headers, there we go.
There we go, okay, so it takes in a name,
we'll just call this Frontend Masters,
there we go.
So we'll create this,
and we get this id here.
So we got this project
with a nice id here.
Now, let's play with this resolver to
see exactly what I'm talking about.
I'm just going to add a log here just so
you can see what I'm talking about.
So I'm going to say hello in id resolver.
So now I'm going to add that log,
I'm gonna go back here,
I'll refresh just in case.
I need to make a new project
name because it's unique.
I'm just going to run this again.
And if I could look at that log,
you can see hello in id resolver.
So when I ask for the id,
it actually executed the id resolver.
Remember, so if I don't ask for
this id though, and
I just type name here, change the name,
and let me clear this,
and I run it,
>> Scott Moss: It's not gonna log.
It didn't actually execute the resolver
because I didn't ask for it.
All the resolvers get random because
that what the query demanded.
So this is what I was saying,
you don't have control over when your
resolvers are gonna be executed.
They're gonna be executed
when someone asks for them.
So if you think about it that way,
how do you create it in such a way
that they are gonna run it exactly
the same, no matter what is given to them.
And they only resolve the value of
which they are responsible for,
they don't resolve something else.
Until you get to really advanced stuff,
then maybe you can do that but
you won't normally do that.
So in this case, id just returns
whatever I wanted it to, and
notice I don't have a resolver for
name here.
There's no project's name resolver here.
So how was I able to get the name,
anybody know?
>> Speaker 2: Just declare on the type.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
This project actually has
a name property on it.
So let's actually go through
the order of execution.
So I'm gonna do this.
So you can get a really big
picture of what's happening.
So we have projects resolver.
And then we've got id resolver, right?
So let's do that.
Come back here, refresh this.
Make another one, and
I'm gonna ask for ID as well.
So we'll execute that, and
let's go look at the logs.
So you can see, I'm sorry,
I put it in the wrong one.
I put that in the resolver,
it should be in the mutation.
>> Scott Moss: Let's put,
here we go, all right, so
let's start that over and
let's make another one.
All right, so we'll run this,
clear the console, there we go.
And now you can see the first thing
that ran was project resolver.
And then because I asked for id,
the id resolver then executed second.
>> Scott Moss: Now, the reason that
happened in that order is because that's
what the query was asking for.
So let's look what's actually happened.
So first thing that we ran
was new project, right?
So that was the actual mutation.
So there is a resolver for
that mutations right here.
So that's why this logged.
And then, after that resolved,
we ask for the id.
So when you ask for the id,
it actually ran the id field resolver for
the project type,
which was this function, right?
Now, I talked a lot about
this in the last course.
The next thing to talk about is what
to actually do here with this stuff.
So notice I got this argument
here called project.
On these top level resolvers,
all of these are null.
I just used the underscore as
placeholders, there's nothing there.
But this one actually has
a first argument, and
that's because something
got resolved before it.
In this case, what was resolved before
this ID resolver was this new project.
So whatever this new project return,
gets passed as a first argument
to the nested resolvers.
And that's how I'm able to resolve
the fields for the type project,
because I'm given the actual
project as the first argument.
That's how you know you
are inside of a nested resolver
is when you're actually
passing things out.
But this newProject was not aware of that.
This newProject didn't know that there was
gonna be an ID resolver underneath it.
All it did was,
I just need to return an object that looks
like this, something like this, and
if I don't return something like this,
I hope there's some resolvers underneath
me that's gonna resolve them.
That's basically it.
So if I decided just to return an empty
object here, it will still work as long as
I resolve all those fields
that are being asked for here.
Does that makes sense?
But if I don't resolve those fields
eventually GraphQL, I tried to resolve it,
I look everywhere, there's no resolution,
I'm just gonna break.
So all that has to be resolved.
Any questions on that order of execution?
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: So even though your
type create project, or new project,
says it's going to return a non-nullable,
if you return
an empty project from that resolver,
GraphQL's gonna be cool with that?
>> Scott Moss: No, so let me explain.
This new project here, let's say I
return an empty object, and I will.
I'm just gonna return an empty object,
right?
I'm just gonna save that.
And then inside of ID,
I'm actually just gonna return,
>> Scott Moss: Just that.
Okay?
So let me refresh that.
Make sure I'm only asking for id.
Do you think this is going to break?
Because now that I'm
returning the id object?
>> Speaker 3: No,
because you had the resolver for that.
>> Scott Moss: Right,
I have a resolver for the id.
But as soon as I ask for something
that I didn't make a resolver for,
like name, it's gonna break
because I never resolved it.
>> Speaker 3: So
in your project GraphQL, you
have on line 26 it says that newProject
will return a non-nullable project.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly, so newProject is,
all right, let me explain it like this.
NewProject is going to return
a type called Project, right?
But then Project is also a type
that has its own resolvers on it.
So although newProject
did return something,
GraphQL is not doing
the validation check right here.
It's not going to check to see
if this was the same shape.
It's only going to check to see
if the result of the query.
Once it's done,
it's the shape that it's supposed to be.
So it's about where
the validation happens.
So I think you're expecting this
return value to be exactly this.
But in fact,
this return value could be anything.
Because at the end of the day,
as long as the operation resolves to
the type of this, then it's fine.
And we know, because we declared
different resolvers for
this type,
that this is not the end of the operation.
It's actually gonna go down to
this next level, which is here.
>> Scott Moss: Does that make sense?
So I didn't put a name here and
I didn't put a name here.
So when it tried to resolve name
because I asked for it, it failed.
But when I only did id, which does
have a resolver for it, it passed.
And the id is on the type of project.
So it was totally fine.
It's not trying to validate this shape,
it's trying to validate the query.
Right, this query has an id and
a name, it better match that.
It doesn't have to match
the whole object or the project.
It's only what the query asks for.
Right, so if I ask for every single field
on here, yeah, it better have those.
>> Speaker 4: [INAUDIBLE]
because they're required, right?
If you make name not
required it won't blow up.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly.
If I didn't make name required,
it still wouldn't care.
It'll just be no.
It's only because it's required, yeah.
It can get pretty tricky.
All right.
Any more questions on that?
>> Speaker 5: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Speaker 5: So you talked about
the first argument is root.
So it's null, and
then because you return a project,
it becomes a root in the actual
resolver for the project?
>> Scott Moss: That's exactly right.
>> Speaker 5: Will it just keep passing
root, whatever the last root was,
just keeps getting passed down?
>> Scott Moss: Yes, whatever you return
from the previous resolver, if there's
another resolver underneath it, the value
of the previous resolver is the root.
Yeah, it won't combine them or anything,
you can't go get your grandparent but
you only get what was before you.
>> Speaker 5: Right.
>> Scott Moss: And that was it.
If you wanna share things across,
that's what we're getting into next.
But any other questions on this?
Yes?
>> Speaker 6: Quick question.
If you return underfined or null from
resolver, would that break the chain?
>> Scott Moss: If you return undefine or
null, no.
Again, the chain is set up by the query.
When you write these resolvers, you have
no control of what's gonna happen next.
So the only thing that's gonna break the
chain is if somebody decided not to write
a query to do that.
So if I were to return undefined, which
I can't here, I'll do it as an example.
If I were to return undefined in this
mutation, or null, let's just put null.
It's still gonna go down here and
try and resolve this.
But what's gonna happen is
because this is not an object,
and this is trying to place
a property on an object,
you're gonna get a error probably
in JavaScript but not in GraphQL.
Does that make sense?
>> Scott Moss: So it's not so
much a validation thing,
it's more of a type thing.
JavaScript is probably
not gonna allow that,
unless GraphQL is smart
enough to resolve it.
So let's check it out.
>> Speaker 7: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Scott Moss: [LAUGH] This is where Scala
comes in.
Scala.
So let's see.
So we'll say that.
Yeah, so actually it looks like
GraphQL actually did intercept this.
All right, cuz GraphQL, actually what they
do is they wrap your entire query inside
of a try catch, so they actually catch
every single error that you have,
and they try to take care of it for you.
So in this case, because there was
no object to put something on, yeah,
it just freaked out.
So at minimum, yeah,
you would probably need an object here.